#summary Rough planning ideas

Elements:

 - Medium paced strategy. Must avoid slowdowns due to micromanagement. 
   See freeciv. Game should have a balance of fast & relaxing.

 - Buildup -- rewards for your efforts. Lets aim for making the player 
   feel attachment to what they built over the course of a game.

 - < Atom_Eve> I shouldn't have to micromanage my fleets in a ship battle 
               during a game that's supposed to be about buying land and 
	       building factories to trade things.

 - < Khent> IE make it very very hard to invade an island. But its more 
            possible to blockade their trade routes

AI INDEPENDENCE (Majesty-esque)
 - < Khent> Ship captains & naming your boats for a more personal touch. --  You pick captains for your ships, and give them orders, then the AI goes on their merry way doing what they do best.
< Khent> But the trick is that a good captain will do what you tell him to
13:10 < Khent> if you have a scoundrel he might just bend the rules
13:10 <@Garoth> Ah, we were hoping to avoid leveling or per-unit statistics.
13:10 < Khent> causing you diplomatic problems
13:10 < Khent> not leveling. Its the captains AI
13:11 < Khent> if you want them to not have to be micromanaged they have to have 
               their own AI (ie, personalities and percent chance they'll do what you say)
13:13 <@Garoth> You can only give orders to your Captains when they are "at home"
13:13 <@Garoth> And if they do something that they know you won't like, they 
                might become pirates or something.
13:13 <@Garoth> Not bad, if we can make it not overly annoying.
13:13 < Atom_Eve> Or if you send a scout ship out to catch them.
13:13 < Khent> Well, I would say you can task orders for them (unlike magesty) 
               list of co-ords, destroy the shore building. Return fire at 
               anything that attacks you. Abandon mission if you reach below 65% 
               health


CUSTOMIZABILITY
13:31 < Atom_Eve> A big thing for me is customizability. I like small touches 
                  that make things seem more yours.
13:31 < Atom_Eve> Even if that's just, y'know, naming ships.
13:31 <@Garoth> Hmm, alright.
13:31 < Atom_Eve> Little touches like that make games shine for me.
(customizing ships, naming boats/cities, etc -- optional stuff that can add a personal touch.)

ISLAND SPECIALIZATION
- Perhaps TCs only have a certain amount of slots for different kinds of upgrades -- weaver, mason, etc -- and nothing else.

CROPS
15:20 < risujin> ok, so some crops need certain climate?
15:21 <@Garoth> Naturally.
15:21 < risujin> dry/moderate/wet climates?
15:24 < risujin> your island has 20% tobacco-able tiles so focusing on tobacco 
                 will be inefficient

# Garoth's Mechanics Blah Blah

13:38 <@Garoth> Some basics that aren't altogether there:
13:38 <@Garoth> 1) you rent land only
13:38 <@Garoth> 2) You're only a merchant, not a colonizer
13:39 <@Garoth> 3) You can only rent land adjacent to your land you already 
                have and adjacent to settler ships
13:39 <@Garoth> 4) Resources will be kind of all over the place to facilitate 
                trade
13:39 <@Garoth> 5) We were probably going to have raft-walls: you can build 
                long walls on floating rafts in the middle of the sea and tax 
                people coming through
13:40 <@Garoth> 6) You can sell to players as well as towns (AI controlled)
13:40 <@Garoth> 7) Person who makes the most wins
13:40 <@Garoth> 8) Losing doesn't kick you out, it just makes you restart
13:40 <@Garoth> (and you lose by running out of money, etc)
13:41 <@Garoth> 9) You can also choose to become a pirate, but you lose any 
                land/buildings where you don't control the entire island
13:41 <@Garoth> That's all kind of vague for now though
13:42 < Lumoko> also "TC" stands for...
13:42 <@Garoth> Assets not included, I think. That makes it harder.
13:42 <@Garoth> Town Centre
13:42 < Lumoko> ok
13:42 <@Garoth> Oh, and about war
13:42 <@Garoth> You don't declare war, you belong to a nation
13:42 <@Garoth> your nation declares war
13:42 <@Garoth> (AI)
13:43 <@Garoth> When you are at war with another nation, you can't trade with 
                them
13:43 <@Garoth> and you are forced to attack whatever it is of theirs that 
                comes near
13:43 <@Garoth> I think...
13:43 < Lumoko> when a nation declares war and wins, does all properties on 
                land become nationalized?
13:43 <@Garoth> Also, if you attack an island and take out the town centre, the 
                island falls under your control and you must build a new TC
13:44 < Lumoko> man my english is terrible today
13:44 <@Garoth> Well, nations don't "win"
13:44 <@Garoth> I'm not even sure nations have ships, maybe they do
13:44 <@Garoth> It's more like "you can attack them now"
13:44 <@Garoth> Also, you can bribe your gov't to declare a war
13:44 <@Garoth> (as an influence only, not a certainty)
13:45 <@Garoth> And, like I said, if you manage to eradicate everything of 
                someone's or make them run out of money, they simply start 
                again (with a settler ship)
13:45 <@Garoth> But yes, in general, buildings aren't destroyed: they are 
                converted
13:46 <@Garoth> you can also buy out someone's rented land by bidding on their 
                tiles
13:46 <@Garoth> And then whatever is on it becomes yours
13:46 <@Garoth> You can attack buildings also, but only from the sea (as the 
                only "units" are ships)
13:46 <@Garoth> However, chances are, you want to attack the TC to take over 
                the whole island without crippling it
13:47 < Lumoko> that's great how the type of tree effects what lumber you get
13:47 <@Garoth> :)
13:47 <@Garoth> One thing that we really want to avoid: micromanagement
13:47 <@Garoth> So you shouldn't have to constantly monitor/interact with 
                something
13:47 <@Garoth> avoid presenting ideas that make this the case
13:48 < Lumoko> what do you mean by efficiency there though? higher quality 
                tree=higher price, or faster production...?
13:48 < Lumoko> ok
13:48 <@Garoth> Example: your selling price. You don't want to constantly 
                adjust all your selling prices so we have a system where it can 
                fluctuate based on presets