#summary All one needs to know about ships

= Overview =
Ship construction is done in several stages:
  # Design your ship based on which parts go into it.
  # Build a hull.
    # Supply the parts.
  # Selling ships.

= 1. Design = 
The first stage is to design your ship. You will be presented with a simple interface that involves dragging and dropping parts into the middle section, where the parts are compiled into blueprints. After you compile the parts that you desire, you should rename your ship design from the default so that it makes the most sense to you. This name will be later used to pick the ship from the build menu when initiating construction.

(MOCKUP OF DESIGN WINDOW HERE)

== 1.1. Ship Parts ==
Ships are considered in dimensions: capacity, cannon slots, speed, and durability. As such, we have the three categories: Hulls, Sails, and Armour.

=== 1.1.1. Hulls ===
|| Type    || Cost || Capacity || Cannon || Speed      || Durability || Crew ||
||         ||      ||          || Space  || Adjustment || Adjustment ||      ||
|| Mouse   || 500  || 15       || 4      || -2         || -3         || 7    ||
|| Sloop   || 1000 || 60       || 30     || -3         || -1         || 30   ||
|| Frigate || 2000 || 120      || 34     || -4         ||  0         || 45   ||
|| Fox     || 2600 || 40       || 20     ||  0         || -2         || 30   ||
|| Galleon || 4000 || 130      || 60     || -4         || +1         || 65   ||
|| Bear    || 6000 || 140      || 88     || -6         || +4         || 95   ||

*Hull Descriptions*
  * Mouse:   This is meant to be a quick-ish, small hull ideal for nearby fishing. Its low cost also means that it is able to be built early on. This may prove to be a worthwhile scout and island invasion tool, especially considering that they are fairly expendable.
  * Sloop:   This is a decent jack of all trades hull. It has decent space, does not cost an arm and a leg, and is decently durable.
  * Frigate: This hull is decent for transporting goods. It does not carry a tremendous amount of cannons, but it does carry a fair bit of goods. Its speed adjustment is the same as the Galleon, which is convenient for warship/trading ship convoys.
  * Fox:     This is a hull designed with speed in mind. It has the lowest speed penalty and does not hold too much in the way of cannons not inventory. Useful for getting things to places quickly or for raiding parties.
  * Galleon: This is a typical large hull. It is able to have both a lot of cannons and goods. It also gets a slight durability bonus.
  * Bear: This is the heavy, war hull. It has a lot of cannons, and a massive durability bonus because of built-in armouring.

*Notes*
  * Balance is important. I think I did a decent job though. Things are certainly changeable though.
  * Obviously, there cannot be less crew than there are cannons. Please think about this before changing the cannon space/crew values.
  * The adjustments count towards the overall stats of this ship.
  * This table's source text is 79 columns wide and perfectly aligned when viewed with a monospace font... Please don't break that. 

=== 1.1.2. Sails ===

=== 1.1.3. Armour ===

= 2. Build Hull =
After you have a ship designed, select it from Dock->Shipyard and tell it to start building. The shipyard will only build a basic hull for your ship at first. The shipyard will then dump the partial ship into the water near itself. The partial ship is treated as a critically damaged ship, in that it needs fixing to get it up to proper functioning. For building the hull, the Shipyard will use the wood %AMBIG(Other materials needed?) that is in your warehouses.

== 2.1. Outfit Ship ==
After the hull is complete, the Shipyard will attempt to outfit your ship with the parts that the design calls for. As before, the parts will be taken from your Warehouses that are on the island. If a Shipyard does not have the parts it needs to build a ship, it informs the player but does nothing else until the parts are in the warehouse.

At any point during the construction, you can cancel the "repairs" and use another of your ships to tow your ship elsewhere, such as another island's shipyard. Of course, transporting half-built ships is risky business if there is fear of attack.

= 3. Selling Ships =
After one has as ship, he or she is able to sell the ship via the player bidding system. One must simply select the ship one wants to sell, mark it as for sale, and select the price. The game will supply the player with the cost that has been expended to build the ship.

The benefit of being able to sell ships is that a particularly wealthy and influential player would be able to go entirely into the ship building industry, and sell his products to the other players. It also lets the other players not have to worry so much about creating all the infrastructure needed to build a ship if they don't want to and do trust their allies.
